INTEGRITY, PRUDENCE, DILIGENCE
Your Honor!
You must grant justice to this poor woman!
You must see justice done!
You cursed girl!
You even killed your own uncle!
It's really him.
Uncle…
I beg you, Your Honor,
uphold justice for us.
How… How did the plaintiff die?
Your Honor,
when I found Fan Daniu,
he had already died.
There were multiple blade wounds.
Long blade, by the look of it.
Your Honor, in my view,
the killer was skilled with the knife.
It was her.
If not her,
who else would be so practiced
with a butcher's blade?
I'll kill you! I'll kill you!
Over a house? You'd murder for a house?
Your Honor, I arrived
at the yamen at first light.
The neighbors can testify!
Yes, we can testify.
We vouch for Changyu.
-She was home last night.
-That's right.
-We came here together this morning.
-Your Honor,
-Changyu is innocent.
-Silence!
I am still conducting this investigation.
Your Honor,
even if she did not
strike the blow herself,
she could have hired someone.
Why not search her house first?
Yes, yes.
Men!
Detain Fan Changyu pending trial.
-Yes, sir.
-I'll kill you! I'll kill you!
-Changyu!
-It wasn't me!
Changyu!
-Changyu!
Changyu, don't be afraid!
‎She is innocent!
Where is Constable Wang?
Your Honor, he has already
taken men to the Fan residence.
Search!
Ning!
My lord, no one upstairs.
No one in the back courtyard.
My lord, no one here.
Someone came to the Fan house
seeking revenge.
You two stay. The rest,
back to the yamen with me.
-Yes.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
Don't blow it.
Changyu said if we meet bad people,
we blow the whistle.
Not yet.
If you blow it now,
you'll only draw more of them.
Mr. Wang.
I didn't kill my uncle.
I know.
Changyu,
something happened at your house too.
When I arrived,
there were three bodies on the ground.
Where's Ning?
Stay calm.
Those bodies were not
your husband and Changning.
The house was empty.
But it had been turned upside down.
Perhaps they only took them.
There were reports of movement
in the hills outside the city.
-The magistrate has sent men to search.
-I'll go find them.
You cannot leave yet.
-The magistrate has not released you.
-My parents are gone.
My sister is all I have left, Mr. Wang.
I'm begging you.
Changyu.
Be careful.
Ning.
Count to ten.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Nine.
Keep warm.
As long as you're alive,
Changyu will come for you.
Zheng.
Turn around. Don't look.
Let me go!
I've killed someone.
Changyu.
Run.
Don't worry about me.
Take Changning and go!
Changyu. Zheng.
Good.
Now that they're gone,
I can deal with you useless lot properly.
How is it?
I told you to leave.
Why come back?
I had to get Ning somewhere safe
before I could come back for you.
Hold on.
The constables will be here soon.
Just hold on!
Stay focused.
Who sent you?
What did my family ever do
to deserve this?
Yan Zheng!
Stay awake.
Don't fall asleep.
We're almost home.
This is the second time
I've carried you out of the snow.
Other women marry for someone
to hold up the household.
Did I marry you
just to build my strength?
Don't fall asleep.
Stay with me.
You have to live.
If anything happens to you,
I could never repay what I owe.
Get up. Don't fall asleep.
Thank you for saving Ning.
If she had died,
I wouldn't know how to go on.
You're my benefactor.
Yan Zheng.
Wake up.
Don't fall asleep.
Don't you dare sleep, Yan Zheng.
Yan Zheng.
Stay awake.
Changyu!
Changyu! Zheng, wake up!
Changyu! Zheng!
Let's go home.
Changyu. Changyu!
Changyu!
Men!
Zheng.
Your father was a great man,
a hero of unshakable honor.
One day,
you must grow into a man like him.
Zheng, have more food.
-Here, Father.
-Eat up.
You need strength.
Zheng, finish your meal.
Grow up strong, just like Father.
Xie Linshan.
Xie Linshan…
Mother.
How could you break your word?
You promised you'd come back
and paint my brows.
Mother!
WHERE CLOUDS MEET VERDURE
Zheng.
I made some osmanthus cakes for you.
They're sweet.
Go eat them outside.
All right.
When you come back, pick more blossoms.
I will make more for you.
Zheng, remember.
I love osmanthus cake the most.
No. Don't.
Don't eat the osmanthus cake. Don't go!
Mother.
Mother!
Mother…
Mother.
Zheng.
Do not cling to me.
I cannot stay and watch you grow.
Mother, don't leave me.
I was just giving you your medicine.
You reacted like I was stabbing you.
I'm sorry.
-Here.
-I'll take it myself.
Your hand has two deep sword cuts.
And the web of your thumb is torn.
The doctor said
you cannot strain either hand.
It's fine. I don't like sweets.
Don't worry. It's not osmanthus flavored.
You kept shouting not to eat osmanthus.
So I figured you didn't like it.
It's candied tangerine peel.
The doctor said your injuries
are just as serious as last time.
He kept telling me
you need to get proper rest.
Until you've healed,
you are not to lift anything heavy.
Our house has been sealed by the yamen.
We can't return for now.
We'll make do at Mr. Zhao's.
You stay in the loft
and focus on recovering.
Changyu. Yan Zheng. Supper's ready.
All right.
I'll go down first.
I'll bring your meal up in a moment.
Thank you for protecting Ning.
Who sent you?
What did my family ever do
to deserve this?
Xuan Tie death warriors.
The Weis' hounds have tracked us down.
Yet they were not after me.
XIGU ALLEY
The air is dry.
Beware of fire.
Here. Take the brazier.
You… are you cold?
Why are your hands shaking like that?
I… I don't know.
Ever since we came back from the woods.
That's…
Probably just a chill. I'll be fine.
Still up?
Go back to sleep. I'll sit with you.
When you woke at noon,
you were drenched in sweat.
Was it because you killed someone?
A nightmare?
Yes.
It was my first time killing someone too.
Are you afraid?
Truth is,
you're afraid as well.
Not anymore.
Just my hands won't stop shaking.
You don't need to be afraid.
Keep yourself busy these next few days.
Slaughter a pig or two.
Do you know how to butcher pigs?
I'll teach you.
This way,
if you ever give up escorting caravans,
you'll still have a trade.
Come sit here.
It's warmer.
They say
butchers carry a killing aura.
Even spirits won't come near.
If I stay by you,
you won't have nightmares.
Thank you.
Changning, fetch some water.
Leave it there.
Mr. Wang, has the magistrate
reached a verdict?
-Constable Wang.
ARREST WARRANT
By order of the magistrate,
Fan family's son-in-law, Yan Zheng,
is suspected of murder.
He is to be taken into custody for trial.
QINGPING COUNTY YAMEN
INTEGRITY, PRUDENCE, DILIGENCE
Fan Changyu, the case
of Fan Daniu remains unsettled.
As a principal suspect,
you should be confined awaiting trial.
You fled in the confusion.
I have yet to charge you for that.
And now you deliver yourself back here?
Men. Seize her as well.
The head of my household has witnesses.
She has nothing to do with the case.
May I ask, Your Honor,
in your investigation,
have you obtained any solid evidence?
Fan family's live-in son-in-law,
you married into the Fan household
without reporting it to the yamen.
As a man from elsewhere,
do you possess travel papers
to prove your identity?
He does.
Here.
‎YAMEN
REGISTRANT
FAN CHANGYU OF XIGU ALLEY, LIN'AN TOWN
Just as I suspected.
This travel pass was issued only recently.
You have no original
registration documents.
Correct?
I encountered bandits on the road.
My original papers were lost.
TRAVEL PASS
I've asked someone back home
to have them reissued.
They will arrive soon.
In other words,
your documents are incomplete.
Your Honor,
Yan Zheng has married Fan Changyu.
He now has a local guarantor.
Under Dayin Code…
Constable Wang. Silence.
How dare you, base commoners!
You dare pass yourselves off
as citizens of this county?
I say you are bandits
from Qingfeng Stronghold!
Working together to lure criminals here
and ruin the peace of Lin'an!
That is not true!
We are wronged, Your Honor!
We are the victims!
My sister and my husband
were nearly killed!
How can you condemn us
without knowing the truth?
Insolent!
You dare accuse our magistrate?
You claim you were nearly killed.
Perhaps you quarreled over the loot
and turned on each other.
That would not be unheard of.
Give it a few more days.
When the travel papers arrive,
the truth will out.
When I render judgment,
must I wait for you?
Brazen vagrant.
Full of lies and deceit!
Guards!
Twenty heavy strokes!
Bring the confession
and have him press his mark!
Stop!
You serve the court.
Will you beat a confession out of me?
You dare slander this magistrate?
Beat him! Harder!
Your Honor, he is already wounded!
If someone must be struck, strike me!
Make him confess his ties to the bandits!
Strike!
Your Honor!
Are you hurt?
-I am fine.
-Outrageous!
What do you think this courtroom is?
Your Honor!
Fan Changyu is innocent!
Have mercy on these poor souls
who lost their parents!
Yes!
Have mercy!
-Wearing your official hat…
-Let them go!
-…to bully an orphan?
-That's right! You can't bully her!
-What justice is this?
-How can you treat people this way?
They are wronged, Your Honor!
They are wronged!
Please, Your Honor!
Your Honor.
Why not wait a few more days,
lest an injustice be done?
Your Honor, public opinion carries weight.
You do not wish to stir their anger.
‎Your Honor…
Silence!
One case at a time.
Fan Changyu,
as a suspect in the Fan Daniu case,
you should not even be here.
Constable Wang, take her back to the jail.
Yes.
Changyu, come with me.
It is all right.
Your Honor, lock her up.
That's the safest place.
In the end, the body
will be all the proof you need.
-I will give you one last--
-I will give you one final chance.
Outrageous. Seize him!
I speak of the law,
yet you insist on framing me.
Very well.
Then we shall follow my rules.
You… What are you doing?
You are a mere commoner!
Do you dare harm our magistrate?
A mere county magistrate.
Do you dare speak of rebellion?
You…
What are you saying?
It is you who oversteps your authority.
Gentleman, do not be rash.
Yan Zheng!
Your Honor,
are you not taking this rather too far?
YAN ZHENG
Yan Zheng's travel papers are here.
Internal injury?
Did you miss me?
Starting to appreciate me now?
If you had come any later,
I would have smashed this place apart.
Better to avoid further trouble.
Leave it to me.
Your Honor,
Yan Zheng is a student of Luyuan Academy.
His travel documents
and credentials are all here.
Might we speak privately?
Luyuan Academy?
Please.
YAMEN
INTEGRITY, PRUDENCE, DILIGENCE
Please.
JUSTICE IS BLIND
It is settled. Rest easy.
Your Honor, he is only a scholar.
Was such courtesy necessary?
What do you know?
Luyuan Academy stands at the pinnacle
of scholarship in this realm.
Those noble heirs
aren't people I can afford to offend.
Neither of us can reveal who we truly are.
Better to avoid more trouble.
He is unfit to hold office.
A yard fowl strutting among tiles.
Deal with him however you like later.
Right now, we're on their turf.
Let's get out first.
I have reviewed the facts.
Hear the verdict.
Summon Madam Mi, widow of Fan Daniu.
Yan Zheng is a lawful citizen.
In defending his family,
he was forced to kill a bandit.
He has no ties to Qingfeng Stronghold.
He is therefore acquitted.
-Wonderful!
-And Fan Changyu?
Yes, what about Fan Changyu?
At present, there is no evidence
that Fan Changyu is the true culprit.
She is to be released as well.
Your Honor!
You must grant this widow justice!
Fan Daniu died unjustly!
Silence!
It is because of you,
you quarrelsome shrew!
Shouting and wailing in court.
Have you no decorum?
Right and wrong are for me to determine.
If any of you continue this disturbance,
you will be punished severely.
Court dismissed.
-Careful.
-All right, disperse!
-Yan Zheng!
Good thing I arrived when I did.
Another second and you'd be dead.
Yan Zheng. Yan Zheng.
Take care of Fan Changyu.
Of course.
Yan Zheng!
Who is Fan Changyu?
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS FILM
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang